ladies and gentlemen there was a time
when people made youtube videos
with the reckless pretension that they
were trying to save the world
and i miss those days i really do i miss
those days
when it was considered shocking and
insulting
to say that someone was just making
youtube videos for money can anyone else
remember that how dare you how dare you
say i'm just doing this for money
i'm trying to change the world
and you know as cynical and saddening a
figure as vegan gains now is
can you remember
can you remember a time when he made
youtube videos criticizing the religion
of islam
when he made deadpan serious videos
criticizing islam and propounding
atheism and can you remember
when he deleted those videos you know
when he took them down to avoid being
censored or suppressed by youtube when
he when he decided to throw all of his
you know time and effort and energy into
doing completely idiotic video game
commentary and you know quote you know
debates so on and so forth you know um
you know when you're looking at the
career the meteoric and influential
career of vegan gains you're looking at
a phenomenon
that partly charts the meteoric rise and
fall of the vegan movement itself say
2014 to 2021 and you're also looking at
a phenomenon that charts the rise and
fall of youtube right like a lot of the
distinctive features of vegan gains
channel in the early popular period of
his career those were also the features
of of youtube as a as a whole platform
right
and how how did it come tumbling down
so i got to disclose my bias here guys
i'm happy to happy to talk to anyone in
the audience
vegan gains
he and i knew each other
we spoke personally for a couple of
years
um
he's now threatened
everyone with a cage match
who's ever criticized them
except me
he's threatened everyone with lawsuits
including me
he's never followed through even though
we're both canadian citizens we're both
resident in canada
um
he's resorted to the lowest order of
bullying tactics that he would criticize
as immoral in others but without
hesitation he engages in those things
himself the same thing so give you a
very easily palpable example we have
seen him just in the last few months
harshly criticizing another channel for
claiming to be vegan
while buying meat
in order to feed it to her pet dog
vegan gains himself did this it's about
four years ago now i remember where we
were when i made videos responsible and
richard was still friends with then he
still talked to me about my perspective
on that it's like what do you want me to
tell you richard you know paying someone
else to kill an animal so you can feed
it to your dog as opposed to paying them
to kill an animal to feed it to yourself
you know it's no big ethical difference
here guys you know
like oh well uh i run a factory that
kills cows and makes their skin into
leather but i use it to provide shelter
for the homeless like like what you make
leather tents or something guess what
you're still killing cows there were
still more ethical ways it's ridiculous
you know sorry but that's you know
it's really beyond hypocrisy hypocrisy
is just
failing to practice what you preach and
it's going to sound weird guys there are
a lot of reasons to be a hypocrite there
are a lot of legitimate reasons to be a
hypocrite i have a child i'm divorced i
have a kid i might make a video one day
encouraging you to sign up and join the
army and fight in some more and i'd say
look i can't do it i have other
responsibilities i'm too old or whatever
it is i'm raising a kid i can't do it
but i'm going to encourage you to start
happening there there are reasons to be
a hypocrite well richard is doing as
much worse than hypocrisy he's engaging
in the moral condemnation of someone
for a sin
for an action an unethical act or deed
that he is amply guilty of himself and
there's no by the way in those videos i
had to sit through them there is not one
moment of self-reflection there is not
one moment in which he falters and says
you know what a couple years ago when he
was already a vegan activist back when
he was at the height of his fame when he
had more than 10 times as many viewers
per month as he has now when he was
having millions of years but they
actually he made the same mistake he
could have said that he made this
mistake in the past and he regretted it
and he couldn't even even talk through
like sincerely how he convinced himself
that it was morally acceptable to buy
meat if he was feeding it to his dog and
maybe he would have even mentioned
people like me i was a friend of his at
the time i was criticized
maybe he would mention that people like
me influenced him to change mine nope
there's absolutely no humility there's
no reflection so you say this is this is
several steps beyond hypocrisy for him
to uh uh condemn others those way all
right guys i'm happy to respond to your
your comments some of you guys
i know i know there are people where you
know vegan gains change their whole
lives you know i know there are people
who discovered my channel and who became
vegan and took on a new direction and
did all kinds of things because of vegan
gains influence in their life but you
know what can i tell you that doesn't
mean he's a good channel it doesn't mean
he's a good creator it doesn't mean he's
someone you should respect or or listen
to i said this years ago i haven't
talked about it i haven't talked about
this for years but you know you can
change your life because you had a car
crash i think my example is close to my
experience you can change your life
because you see a car crash on the side
of the road you're not involved but you
stop and you look at it you think
i got to change my life you know what
are you gonna do are you gonna buy
you know
a scale model of that car crash
and put it on an altar and worship it
are you gonna pray to it you know don't
respect the car crash carl i changed my
life because of this car crash right
well you know v you may have changed
your life because of vegan gains you may
have changed your life for the better
don't respect vegan gains for that
reason don't uh
don't look up to them
anyway sorry i was i was digressing just
to say
um
you know that that i do have this
history with richard that he and i were
friends uh for a couple of years he and
i did talk
and then when he decided he hated me you
guys some of you have seen this some of
you remember it some of you could go
back and see my videos that have some
screenshots you know ironically one of
the main ways he insulted me was about
the size of my penis
so he made all these comments on the
internet you guys again i have
screenshots of like a couple of them i
didn't put together a collection but he
was being so morally superior to me
because i would talk about the size of
my penis on the internet and by the way
if you've seen the videos where i'm
talking about it
i am not ashamed of those videos at all
they're talking about it in a meaningful
nuanced way as part of my life so just
briefly some of you guys are here for
the first time so someone just asked me
the audience uh shout out to the one and
only welcome welcome to the crowd who
asks are you vegetarian vegan armed with
so i have been vegan
for more than 10 years now yeah this is
no 2021 i've been so i've been vegan for
a very long time it'd take me a while to
figure out when i became vegan to be
honest with you because before i was
vegan i was strictly vegetarian which
was like 95 vegan before i was vegan i
was like
uh i was a vegan but who would eat pasta
that had parmesan cheese in it there was
like a you know i would ignore dairy in
kind of trace amounts in my diet that
way but i i did i didn't buy cheese or i
didn't buy cow milk this kind of thing
so i even then sir the exception was
parmesan cheese when i was with my
ex-girlfriend she she really liked
parmesan cheese so i have to admit that
too but anyway i'll just say the reason
why it's hard to remember is that so
like starting the year 2000 i was
strictly vegetarian and then at one
point i graduated to being 100 vegan but
before that was 95 anyway sorry i'm
digressing but you know welcome to the
welcome to the crowd i was saying oh
right penis size i was saying something
really meaningful before that penis
sucks right so you know
when i made videos talking about this i
wasn't boasting i wasn't insulting
richard or anyone else i wasn't i'm not
insulting someone else's sexuality and
i'm not saying my sexuality is so great
which is i mean richard is such a such a
shallow person that's how we respond oh
gee richard why do you feel threatened
by this richard had already talked about
his penis size at the time and he went
on to talk about it a lot more and then
he went on to try to monetize it so in
case you didn't know one of the
differences is now richard has started
and only fans richard has started making
uh you know
pornography of himself showing himself
masturbating and selling on camera now
look guys
i can imagine a parallel universe where
i had no better option than to do i can
imagine you know i've talked about that
with uh melissa so
melissa we've been together for more
than four years now for something like
four and a half years but you know
sometimes i talk about how my whole life
could have been different if i if i'd
chosen one of the suitors one of the
women who were pursuing me that time
other than melissa you know some of the
things are are relatively shallow and
minor well so they're actually to be
honest this is neither shallow tomorrow
but you know like you know i used to do
a lot of videos talking about game of
thrones the tv show and the books you
know the game of thrones george r martin
books and i can imagine if i'd been with
one of those other women i might have
made more videos in that way if i'd been
with one of the other women i could
imagine my channel become more like a
history channel i can just imagine it
kind of going in different
directions somewhat because of the woman
i i'd chosen but yes i can absolutely
imagine where partly due to poverty
yeah poverty and hopelessness and lack
of any better alternative because the
woman i can totally imagine that i would
have ended up with only fans but unlike
richard i would not be on an ego trip
about it i wouldn't be on this crazy
future but anyway yeah he used to
used to insult me about this
and you know guess what the difference
is now richard just like the thing with
buying
dead animals to feed your pet dog and
justifying it as vegan it's beyond
hypocrisy well guess what richard now
the difference is you boast about the
size of your penis and we know
you have nothing to boast about like we
know that your penis is just a normal
size for a man of six foot three it's
not impressive if you haven't googled it
yet you can google it right now and you
can see he has a an average sized penis
for a man of six foot three and it's
also ugly and misshapen i'm just saying
is not he is never he would never be
you know cast in a porn movie and if you
look at the websites that are dedicated
to frankly men who appreciate that kind
of porn i've seen him reviewed where
it's a bunch of gay guys sitting around
talking about how disappointed they are
okay richard so you know you tried to
humiliate me and you tried to play all
these games ultimately come down to
shaming someone for daring to talk about
this stuff and sorry i gotta say this
it's worth explaining when i talked
about this it's to reflect on what i've
been through in my life okay
and you know yeah the penis size issue
and owning condoms uh get finding
condoms that fit you yeah it really
screwed up my life at different stages
when i was when i was first losing my
virginity when i was first having sex
and you're trying to use the comics
you're a teenage kid and even though
like i didn't grow up in a christian
household but still my parents were very
screwed up and repressed about sex they
were in a non-christian way they were
really messed up about it they were
really terrified of like teen pregnancy
and abortions they were all messed up
they're left-wing but they were all
screwed up with stuff they couldn't talk
about it but i think most people they
don't even nobody even thinks to talk to
a teenage kid about what to do if the
condom doesn't fit well guess what if
you are wearing a condom that's too
small for you it basically creates
sexual dysfunction like you can't really
have an erection you can't enjoy
sex so this huge impact in my
life and it didn't occur to me so at
that time so again this i'm letting you
guys know this is why i talked about it
when richard comes out to talk about the
size of his penis he's doing it to
insult and humiliate others he's doing
it to boast about how superior he is to
you and then he's doing it to make money
out of only fans again to promote his
fame at the same time he's claiming he's
one day gonna stand for office he's
gonna stand in elections and be erected
be erected prime minister of canada good
one
he's supposedly going to be in elections
on the strength of his erections you
know um it's it's ridiculous and you
know anyone can say i mean she's you
know if look if i'm going to do only
fans you think i'm good like you know
you've got a uh under promise over
deliver you know if i were just saying
if i'm gonna go into porn if i'm gonna
do only fans i'm gonna be a creative
filmmaker i'm gonna try to do something
where you respect me for something other
than my body like wow you know that guy
really puts some work i'm just saying i
wouldn't be this lazy self-indulgent
who just films himself
masturbating in the bathroom or
something you know i think he ought to
be ashamed of himself as a filmmaker
that way too so within pornography
there's good pornography and bad
photography you can come up with
scenarios that are really
psychologically interesting you can film
things you can really produce something
nobody else is producing that you know i
think there's a lot of creative positive
stuff you can do in porn i have seen i
think i've seen one
pornographic film ever that tried to
make a political point i know there are
others i remember reading a newspaper
article this isn't the normal newspaper
i was talking about political porn i
never and yeah i had a friend
so i don't want to digress i had a
friend in toronto she was black and she
worked in a porn shop a shop that sold
pornography and also dildos and things
but it was a feminist porn shop and i
remember talking to her about that so
what about the porn films that are
trying to make a point that somehow and
we was interested in conversation i
don't just be honest i don't even put
the time into watching them like i don't
want to spend three hours
i don't want to spend one hour watching
this stuff just you know
i'm
not afraid of it but i don't really want
to spend the time uh looking into that
further but you know sure whether you're
passionate about veganism
or you're passionate about
yeah sure you're passionate about
religion that's a great time oh that'd
be a great topic so melissa is
mentioning the famous porn star mia
khalifa if you want to do porn that
criticizes religion in general or you
know judaism christianity islam i could
make quick hardcore porn films that were
you know partly satirizing and partly
criticizing religious sure sorry now now
i'm getting into it but like you know
look so i remember i've mentioned this
before back when i was a kid
i once read a magazine article that was
interviewing an elderly
african-american pimp this is a black
guy in america who'd been part of the
pimping scene back when pimping was
really pimping before the internet
before anything you know old school pimp
old school fur coat walking cane era
pink pimp you know what i mean
and the the interviewer the interviewer
asked him a couple of really broad
questions that he had
emotionally
significant answers to i remember the
interviewer asked him like
you know all these pimps talk about the
women in their lives talk about the
prostitutes as if they mean nothing did
you ever fall in love with one of your
hoes and he said back so again this is
this is in prince i know it's time for
us he said man i fell in love with every
single one of my hoes i loved all of
them i love them to bits and what and
when i when they're not around i miss
them and when one of them walked away
and started working with another i
always wondered why and it would always
eat at me
you know he's talking about and he's
really talking about how he loves these
women i know he wants to spend his life
with them and he wishes they were still
around stuff yeah i think you know a
couple of them are but like you know the
point is most of them you know he has
the sense of having lovely having this
really you know emotionally sincere
thing
anyway and um i think that the
interviewer just asked some kind of very
general question about the competition
about about other men
and he said man you know that's why
you've got to have love in the game so
this is this is a memory from like 40
years ago or 35 years ago or something
so i'm only 42. but it was a memory from
a long time ago whenever i read this but
you know so this is not exact phrasing
but um he said man that's that's why
you've got to have like a love
connection with these with these women
he said there's always somebody more
handsome than you there's always
somebody with more money than you
there's always somebody with a bigger
dick than you that can take your hose
away like unless you've got love for
them and they've gotta love you unless
there's love in the game unless that's
the wow you know but of course it's true
like
of course it is true like richard should
have known before he did this right like
dude you are not going to be the man
on only fans with the largest penis like
that is just that is just not gonna
happen nobody is going to gasp in
amazement when you finally reveal this
penis that you have been boasting about
that you have been building up
expectations over so long
what he did right and then it's like the
penis finally comes out saying
you know like what what he could have
done is to impress people and say he
could have come out and said hey look he
doesn't have the biggest penis and of
course he's not the best in bed i mean
of course come on the guy the guy talks
openly about his his sexual problems
he's obviously a very very messed up
disabled person in many ways he talks a
lot about his mental disability he talks
a lot about his very strange sexual
activities and what he can cope with and
what he can't the way in which he's kind
of just barely heterosexual and stuff
like you know okay
you know but he could have come out and
said that he's a creative artist and a
filmmaker and he's really going to do
something other people can't do of
course he also could have you know put
the emphasis on the fact that he works
out and this way like like he's going to
lift weights nude or something like it's
going to be about his physique or
something yeah but sure there are a lot
of different ways to approach it there
are ways to approach it that are that
are humble you know
now look this is my point when i made
videos talking about my penis size that
richard hated me for intensely and for
like two years he was engaged in a
harassment campaign against me and
saying all this insulting stuff to me
including by email said to me directly
and public youtube comments you know
saying all this stuff about the size of
my penis you know like dude when i came
out and talked about it it was humble
because i'm talking about the way in
which it my life up
i'm talking about what it's like to be a
teenage man who who at that time i grew
up it's like the peak of the aids
hysteria i'm losing my virginity with
this girl i'm not really that attracted
to which is how it is for a lot of us
when you're young you don't really know
what you like or you don't maybe you
don't admit to yourself what you like
like there are guys who like fat women
it takes them a long time to admit it
you know whatever but you know my
situation with that girl i've mentioned
this before but really quick you know uh
i was at a party where i all eyes were
on me if you tell me why i was like i
went at this party i was the most
handsome guy like you know this which is
whatever i know sorry i'm just saying i
don't know if there were i don't know
where they're 20 guys 30 it's not a huge
party but like all eyes were on me all
the women were at me at this party
really
i'm not this is not every party i go to
this particular party and most of guys
didn't have confidence dancing and they
were playing like 1960s soul music so
that was the time when uh i'm sorry i'm
forgetting the name there's a really
crappy filmmaker who makes these violent
movies quentin tarantino okay so there
were movies though from quentin
tarantino and that brought back an
interest in some 1960s and 1970s kind of
soul funk music and i could really dance
to that and most of the guys were there
couldn't like i don't know i don't know
if maybe they could dance i don't know
what they could dance to maybe they
could dance to rock and roll hair metal
or something i don't know right
but i really i could really dance the
funk and soul at that time so i'm
whatever i'm taller and i'm better
looking
all these women are at me
and the chick i wanted the girl i wanted
was there like the best friend of the
girl who got me there was this girl who
really wanted me one and she was like
saying to the girls like no no no none
of you can touch him and she wanted to
me
today she wanted for me that night she
wanted about me then she was trying to
take me out and do me
like seriously
and i'm sorry i was still a virgin i was
like i'm not you know what i mean i'm
not looking to have sex with a complete
stranger i'm at a party you know what i
mean i'm not you know it's not what i'm
on the page for anyway eventually she
ended up being the woman who took my
virginity so yeah what i'm saying is i'm
a victim feels sorry for me
anyway but you know i wasn't attracted
to her i'm not i'm not saying she was
ugly human you know she was totally good
whatever but that's not how human
attraction works her friend who also was
shorter than her i've always i've always
okay look all kinds of women are
beautiful but like in terms of what's my
type i'm like six foot three in the
morning i'm six foot two by by sundown
but like normally i i do not want to be
with a woman who's also six feet tall i
if you're out there ladies i'll make an
exception
yeah i mean you know what i mean you got
to be open-minded and any of these
preferences of course it can be overcome
just because someone is intelligent just
because you have something in common
with them just because you like having a
conversation with but like i remember
her friend was shorter than her and was
more feminine than her and that was
really what i responded to
to be honest sorry her friend looked
more like my current girlfriend melissa
just just being real you know some of
the other features which now after after
years i can recognize like also um
i'm not i'm not saying i like an
enormous nose on a woman but i do like a
certain kind of
like i don't i don't like a woman to
have like a tiny nose you know what i
mean melissa nobody says melissa has a
big nose but she has you know like a a
significant nose yeah yeah i do think
that's part of why i respond to melissa
anyway i do like very feminine women
anyway sorry whatever this is this that
the question with the my point is
like you are a teenage dude
and you have been loaded up like you're
a virgin
and like whatever i was the girl i was
having sex with how many men she had sex
with before me she wasn't the virgin i
forget she had two or three but it's
like oh no no you gotta use uh you gotta
use a condom every time right and guess
what if the condom is too small if the
cotton doesn't fit
you like
you've got all these problems like it's
impossible for you to have sex it's
impossible for you to enjoy sex
and the the biggest trip of all was this
like nobody talked me through this the
way marketing worked at the time like
okay
so i buy a regular size condom it
doesn't work so i go back and i buy
trojan magnum and there was another
brand that had extra large in the in the
branding right
and that's still not big enough that's
still not working and i could tell it
was only slightly bigger right well of
course this is the way this is
21st century marketing like oh like they
want guys to feel like they're huge when
selling them a condom that's like 10
bigger or something and so i went
through this whole thing was a huge i'm
telling you guys about it now but i had
made videos talking about that like dude
this really screws people up for life it
definitely i mean for like five years it
screwed up my life like what do you want
to say like 16 17 18 19 20 yes easily
easily five years
this screwed up my life right and
you know like it's hard to recognize the
problem and then once you recognize the
problem what the you gonna do about
it and let's just say again there's all
this like guilt trip like oh you
know the type of men who make up an
excuse to not use condoms with a woman
that's a terrible man like you should
feel guilty there was this whole
cultural discourse about how everyone
should use a condom every time like even
if you're married there's all this
about using a condom all the
time
being like crucial to you know
whatever male morality and not not being
an abuser or an exploiter of women there
was like absolutely no recognition that
there's a significant percentage of the
male population who either cannot have
sex with a condom at all or cannot enjoy
it right
now just mention
the biggest size of condom made in
america which is not easy to get not
every side because it's like the extra
extra large condom by the american
standards that i can use and it's tight
on me
but like if i couldn't get that condom
there would be no condom on earth i
could use in my experience right so real
really briefly so i had this whole
trauma with this as a
teenager
and then i move from canada to asia
and i go through it all over again and
it's completely surreal so i'm
with a different girlfriend with my
blonde girlfriend but it's completely
cereal because for one thing
what they call an extra large condom in
japan and like someone's like extra
actually i remember this one japanese
brand it was like big boy extra extra
large well guess what a japanese
extra-large condom is smaller than a
canadian normal condom like
and i'm with my girlfriend
who is an about it my girlfriend
was such a to me about this
i'm sorry i mean it was a horrible
relationship and the sex was terrible
too it was terrible she was
gorgeous she was very attracted to me
like you know there are other reasons
why she was gorgeous and she had a good
sense of humor i really appreciated
laughing with her there were positive
things about her but holy i go
through all this trauma again and i told
her at that time like i had detachments
where i was like look this is something
i went through as a teenager when i was
first discovering sex and like it is
still up my life you now like
i'm not cool with this i'm not over this
like i'm not into you know like
oh she made my so look i'm just saying
when i came out to talk about this issue
i was not trying to promote and only
fans i was not trying to get laid i was
not trying to impress you i was not
trying to humiliate richard right like
i'm not trying to bring vegan gains his
channel down or anyone else's channel
down you know what i mean like i'm sorry
there were women hey guys i see your
comments oh you know but like
it's a good good suggestion somebody
says try saran wrap
[Laughter]
it's a good way to get someone pregnant
bro
but you know um
like i'm not trying to bring someone
down now look there are all kinds of
channels from from women there are women
who talk about how being flat-chested
changed their lives how having very
small breasts or no breasts like good
talk about it share your experience be
analytical you know and and by the way
if they want to do only fans too fine
there's tons of guys who who like or
prefer small breasts doing according to
richard he does also richard prefers uh
flat-chested small restaurant according
to him um again his actual preference is
really weird but you know i i would
never denigrate someone saying like oh
you're feeling sorry for yourself
because you have a small brass blah blah
okay but guess what there are also women
who have youtube channels talking about
how having enormous breasts screwed up
their life and it's real i had one
female friend
okay i had several female friends who
had enormous press growing up one of
them became a stripper
i think i think briefly like i don't
know if she was tripping for one year or
two years i i we we lost it and yeah she
was trying to sleep with me and there
was all this weird she quote
unquote fell in love with me and there
was all this benefit and i didn't want
her you know sorry okay they're all
kinds of women who are attractive or
gorgeous and i don't want them and women
feel the same way about men you know
what i mean it's not like women want
every attractive man or every gorgeous
man i'm sorry but this is
welcome to planet earth you know what i
mean anyway but yeah i remember but oh i
had one female friend
and she started having big breasts at
13.
and i remember her talking about it like
all of a sudden there were all these
sports she can't play anymore like she
just physically can't play the sport she
talked about she couldn't play
volleyball anymore she couldn't put her
hands together to do the the volleyball
motion couldn't and she could before
sports didn't hold a lot of bumping
around she couldn't run track and field
she couldn't really sprint like you know
she could but like she was she was
really big i forget she was like e cup
or double even some women are really big
and it's really
like you know it really limits their
ability to play sports for example now i
know oh sure you can be salty there are
women like oh yeah your life is so hard
because all these guys want to sleep
with you when you can't play volleyball
no
listen be oblique be willing to
listen to talk people talking about
their suffering and their experience in
life right no it's up for her she
had the experience at age 13
of fully grown men trying to sleep with
her like adult men trying to sleep with
her and some of those men knew that she
was 13 and some of them didn't some of
them because of her appearance because
of her body because she'd already been
through puberty they assumed she was 18
or something like that i assumed she was
old there was okay that was a huge
formative part of her life that screwed
her up that are these kinds of impact
you know but like yes you have to be
willing to listen to that you have to be
willing to talk about that and there are
miseries when you're 13 having enormous
breasts and there are miseries when
you're 45 and everything starts sagging
and everything and you know and yes you
know yeah it does matter it does matter
to people that they wanted to be a track
and field athlete you know maybe she
wanted to throw the javelin whatever it
is she had me you know whatever in her
case i'm okay i guess i knew the
specific sports she was involved in that
she wanted to play that she had to kind
of stop playing couldn't get ahead you
know well look maybe that's shallow but
that mattered to her to some people
playing football matters a lot to some
people playing baseball
and sure you have this physical
development you can't control now you
can't play sports anymore now all these
guys are are trying to sleep with you
and whatever people are paying for your
only fans or paying attention to you on
instagram all of a sudden the attention
you get on instagram
it's real it's real and it's worth
talking about and like in the same sense
that the problems and struggles you know
women have whether they are flat chested
or big breasted are worth talking about
and worth taking seriously either way
the problems men have who have an
especially small penis and especially
large penis they're also worth talking
about like god sorry we're all a bunch
of monkeys we're all a product of we're
all a product of evolution we are all
equally monkeys okay
it's
absolutely nothing racist you know
uh implied by that so you know yeah
this was illustrating the point that in
the same way that vegan gains
it's not just hypocrisy so guys i am
going to reply to your comments but he
will
attack people for things he will
denigrate people for things that he is
guilty of himself and he will set up the
criteria
to denigrate others to judge others to
condemn others morally criteria that he
will never reply to himself that he
won't apply to himself fairly also
now i think the ultimate guys i'm happy
to hear what you have to say with us i
think the ultimate
you know example of this has got to be
his position on um mind altering drugs
right to my knowledge richard vegan
gains is now on antidepressants he's now
taking psychomats
this is my own merch by the way
this is a mirror mode
so there you go
um shout out to my merch company
i um
one of these costs the same amount as
one of the t-shirts you know more within
more or less and i got but the t-shirts
are great but one of the this this'll
last a lifetime this thing is it's solid
steel eh so if you hate it you're stuck
with it for a lifetime but yeah the
t-shirt will not last a lifetime is my
is my prediction
so if you want to do if you want to
merge on the other hand if you're trying
to strike up conversations with people
at the gym you know
we've got a lot of quality comments here
quote my teacher a few years ago was 4
foot 10 with a huge ass god damn
pictures or it never happened
remember people photos are never
happened that one in a style why did
people stop saying that maybe it's
because people have pictures oh okay
maybe it got too easy to send pictures
you know yeah um i am just saying it's
not it's not a fit
uh
the tallest the tallest woman i ever got
with was actually the woman with with
huge breasts who became a stripper i
forget how tall she would probably maybe
that's part of why i wasn't why i wasn't
attracted to her but one of the things i
remember was that you know my neck hurt
kissing like the thing you do with your
neck is
i hope this is useful information for
you
but yeah it's definitely a different
bunch of different bunch of neck motions
to kiss someone who's who's really tall
i you know
i don't know it's an issue
could be an issue for any combination of
genders maybe gay men also think about
that if you're gay i think you want to
be with someone the same height so you
can share wardrobe you know what i mean
so like if i were gay i'd want someone
who's the same height as me same shoe
size i think well now i got twice as
many shoes no
don't act like i'm the first person to
have thought
all right just reading to your reading
through your comments guys
so audrey asks quote i'm so lost here
who has the smaller penis do you and
vegan gains have only fans haven't
watched vegan channels much in years and
this notification popped open every
moment so i hope you're still here
audrey welcome to the channel um
so
how much do i want to recap vegan gains
does have an only fans you can now with
a mere google search uh figure out you
can you can see everything there is to
see um and he does look this comes back
to probably the most important you know
problem with vegan against he puts very
little effort into it he doesn't have a
highly artistic i mean yes some people
do he's not really acting as a filmmaker
only fans but you can watch his lazy
zero effort nude and pornographic uh
content not only fans so i do not
but i've been willing to
i on my own channel have been willing to
talk about my own penis size and the
problems that's created for me in my
life not in order to humiliate or
denigrate others and it may be
significant that richard responded to
that challenge as if it were somehow a
challenge to him as if it were uh
denigrating him and he lashed out at me
about it and insulted me about it for
years he insulted me about it
even though he himself was amply guilty
of the same so-called sin
he really does you know in a kind of
noxious way
um boasts about his penis size so loopy
dark says that he he uh he or she
says i thought vegan gaines was married
correct and his wife also has and only
fans um
see if i can get it for you i assume i
can share a link to
and only fans here
um
[Music]
so you know look a lot of people i mean
i remember making a video when they
first got married
you know i remember i remember you know
he and i used to talk about
you know we were friends to some extent
um look i think it's kind of a good
segue for me earlier apropos of nothing
i mentioned how my own youtube channel
might have been very different if i'd
married another woman or fall in love
with if i'd chosen another woman from
once you were talking to me and yes i
can imagine that i would have gone into
only fans that would have gone into
doing porn partly out of desperation and
hopelessness and lack of better uh
alternatives and then we got the fact
that hey actually when you think about
it only fans could be politically
interesting it could be a creative
challenge as a filmmaker then it started
to seem way more appealing you know um
[Music]
why did richard choose
this particular woman and why did he
stay with her
obviously she is objectively
unattractive
um
you know and i totally get that
subjectively you can find a woman
beautiful and you can have a meaningful
life with her and it can be very it can
be wonderfully rewarding to be in a
relationship with a woman who is
unattractive or even ugly i'm not i'm
not against that i'm not opposed to that
i'm not saying everyone has to be
shallow all the time
i am saying that everyone has to be
shallow sometimes some of the time okay
once in a while we all got to be shallow
um
you know i think the most important
thing here is that vegan gains was
looking for someone who would never
challenge him morally in any way someone
who would never challenge even his work
ethic right the guy is so lazy he's so
self-indulgent he sleeps in until one in
the afternoon he mopes around in his
apartment in his um
bathrobe he plays video games he
complains about video games he complains
with he's just this really dark
self-pitying character
now you could imagine he might be with a
woman who who loved him and who loved
his youtube channel but he said to him
look richard i remember the level of
effort you put into your videos five
years ago and you're not doing it now
we're like look richard i know you're
capable of waking up in the morning and
you know maybe treating me better than
this like really being alert and sharp
and positive and not being mopey and
self-intelligent like look richard i
know you know i know you're capable of
achieving a higher standard creatively
intellectually you know he could be with
a woman who watches his videos and we've
got to come back to this too this is the
big one is the idea of his channel being
quote unquote science education you know
he could be with a woman who says look
richard you made that video talking
about this scientifically but i know you
didn't really do the kind of research
that you used to do you know i know you
didn't really back this up by doing a
lot of reading i know you've never read
a book
on this topic that you you know you just
made a video about you know he could be
with a woman who asked him hard
questions but above all else you know he
could be with a woman who is not a video
game addict and who questions or
challenges his playing video games for
long hours
now you you may or may not know the sad
story of richard trying to transition
from being a youtuber to being a video
game live streamer i have an email he
sent to me directly where he said that
he was going to become rich like ninja
ninja is the name of a famous video game
competitor that he was going to become
incredibly wealthy playing video games
on twitch
i think that was shortly before he tried
to become rich by showing his penis on
only fans
but it didn't
happen and in case you didn't know i
mean he's gone through a series of these
kind of manic
episodes where he's a mania for
achieving success in a certain way not
only did he fail to ever have a popular
youtube channel or
streaming channel on twitch for video
games but promptly enough he was banned
he banned forever from twitch and you
know why and i was joking with melissa
this before i mentioned oh he's been
banned from twitch and melissa asked me
why
what it's like
is there any question why he got
different does anyone need to know why
he got banned from twitch you know
twitch the standards for for um
censorship are much much stricter right
so obviously the sen the same things
that got him banned from
uh twitter
like i think he has he been banned from
facebook does he have facebook again now
uh but to my knowledge so correctly if
i'm wrong maybe someone else's i believe
he's been banned from instagram he's
definitely been banned from
twitter
banned from twitch and now for the
second time
banned from youtube and there's just a
question of whether or not youtube will
give him another chance or allow him
back you know so on and so forth you
know so yeah you know he chose to marry
someone who will never give him
constructive criticism so you guys you
guys may or may not know this my
girlfriend also makes youtube videos and
you know i do give her constructive
criticism you know and sometimes it's as
simple as saying
babe that was good
but you should do another take
like you know that was okay you said
everything you need to say but like it
sounded rushed or it sounded this and
that you're going to be happier if you
just take a minute and do another you
know
it can be as simple as that you're
sitting in the studio with her you know
talking it through and you know she can
say no i mean she could say nah this
video doesn't matter enough to me to do
them she could say whatever it's her
decision ultimately but we do talk about
editorial
decisions and content based decisions
and you know the research that goes into
videos and things too and you do have
you know we do have substantial
discussion anyway vegan gains
chose to be with someone no matter how
ugly no matter how lazy no matter how
stupid
right no matter how immoral frankly i
also think his wife is an immoral person
someone who would absolutely never
challenge him someone who would never
make him feel lazy someone who would
never make him feel immoral who would
never make him feel like he's
squandering the opportunity of lifetime
somebody would never say to him what i
said at the beginning of this video the
very beginning of this video if you
weren't here i said hey guys there was a
time when people got on youtube because
they were trying to save the world
there was a time when these same people
would be insulted if you said to them
hey you're just doing this for money
and now nobody even has this kind of
aspiration ambition or pretension of
course vegan gains is just trying to
make money why did vegan gain start live
streaming
video games why did he start live stream
himself lifting weights and all this
other crap he's completely lost touch
with the sense of moral purpose and
creativity and art artistry that
motivated him to make videos before of
course it's just a cash he is doing the
minimum amount of effort necessary to
make money and he's barely able to drag
himself out of bed and he chose to get
married to a woman who would never make
him feel bad about that who would never
question him that way and would never
you know would never make him question
himself so yeah his wife also has a
pornographic only fans it does it does
have nudes etc etc yeah
um
you know i'll just ask you this honestly
so anyone in the audience
serious question so i'm interested if
anyone in the audience can tell me about
his current drug habits
because to my knowledge he is back on or
back on whatever he is now taking
um antidepressants he's now taking
psychiatric medication right
um
i forgot the second question
oh yeah here's here's a legitimate
question for you guys
can you remember the last time you
talked about a book he was reading
a book he had read
now i'll be honest with you
i can remember durianrider talking about
one book he'd read i can remember that
from durianrider's whole career now i'm
not saying that the only book he read
during those years maybe he read several
others i can remember him talking about
a book he read can you remember richard
ever like
hey guys i got books i used to have
stacks of books i can bring over my
bookshelf can you remember richard ever
saying even just even if he doesn't hold
up the book
can you remember him ever saying in
passing yeah you know i used to see that
issue that way
but then i read this book and my
perspective on it changed you know like
my thinking about that issue changed
because
i can't remember books ever being
cited or invoked or mentioned or
discussed in that way on his channel i
can't remember him ever talking about
reading
ever
and you know he could have married
someone and he could also have friends
sorry not everything is the person you
marry he could just have friends in his
life who challenge him that way and i
guess you know you'd have to say you
know um
during the brief time that i was his
friend i might have been the only friend
in his life who was challenging that way
and maybe that's why he turned around
and attacked me and over penis size
maybe that's why he made penis size into
a big deal like we're gonna have a
competition over who has uh who has a
bigger penis well okay
richard if it were anyone other than you
i would say that both of us can
your wife and find out who's better in
bed but i you know you couldn't pay me
enough to your life
[Music]
i'd also i'd also like to point out
every other critic richard has ever had
he challenged them to a boxing match he
challenged them to a cage fight he
challenged them to a physical fight in a
boxing arena or an mma gym and richard i
am 42 years old okay bro i'm 42 years
old i'm all natural bro
okay and working on the gym it's not
even on my top ten priorities bro
you and i are the same height and you
never challenge me to a fight not even
when we're friends when i offer to meet
up with in a friendly way richard i
offered to fight you wearing the mask of
one of the guys you hated this is the
way that he had beef with another
youtube channel he had a confidence you
know i said look richard all show up
i'll wear a mask pretending to be that
guy and we'll do a we'll do a fight
we'll do a boxing match you know even
that you wouldn't do with me richard and
i think it's because you know
i could kick your ass i could kick your
ass on strength of character richard all
right at 42 years old and dude
dude i spent eight months proofreading
my book okay like i had a period of
eight months where all i was doing was
writing and revising my book for real
where the gym was was zero priority i'm
not in shape right now i'm not but we
all know
what kind of shape you're in well you
know this guy's hopeful i could do i if
you guys are interested i can launch
into my critique of this guy's fitness
advice it's the work it's the worst
fitness advice on the internet i mean
he's sorry he at least you can give him
credit he's an idiot about everything
he's an idiot about video games he's an
idiot about politics he's an idiot about
human sexuality dating a romance well
guess what he's also an idiot about
weightlifting and that's why he's
constantly crippling himself in the gym
while he's giving himself all these all
these injuries you know
and he says himself you can quote him on
this
he describes himself as mentally
disabled he describes himself as being
like an anorexic and having really
serious you know mental and emotional
problems that he puts into bodybuilding
that he himself is dysfunctional in his
approach to weight loss and muscle gain
but he talks about his own mental and
psychological problems now they warp his
sex life now they wore because it gave
you
okay richard so you spell the nose for
us so why the hell should anyone take
your advice about health diet fitness
bodybuilding
anything you know
but i mean this dude
i mean so just just think about i don't
know how tall is spirit so i realized
there's a youtuber called spirit it's
actually pronounced feya his name but
everyone calls him spirit uh but
you know richard how many times did you
sit there
threatening to beat up spirit well you
made his career you took him from being
a tiny youtube channel to a huge youtube
nose because of you that you built this
totally sneering insincere threat that
you were going to meet up with and have
a fight with spirit she did that again
and again and again
you know sorry i've such i have such
contempt for it
that's sorry sorry sorry it comes back
sorry the most basic premise of this
video and ask again again is
whatever happened to getting on youtube
because you were trying to save the
world whatever happened to being a
filmmaker because you're trying to make
the world a better place what happened
to that motivation what happened to you
bro what happened this one guy vegan
gains and i can ask anything in the
audience what happened to you and you
and you trying to make the world a
better place what just happened to that
positive motivation you know there's a
really stupid you know saying in
buddhism
it's really stupid i mean a lot of
buddhism is a pretty stupid religion
it's it's better than islam if you've
got to choose being buddhism and islam
choose buddhism but there's a lot wrong
with buddhism as a religion trust me but
you know i remember there was just this
saying and it was uh practice the dharma
as if your hat is on fire
you know like where you're getting out
and doing something like you know it's
you know you're working against this
this time i remember these there were
these things you know these other things
too so remember i was reading pali the
scriptural language and remember it was
like saying things like like work so
hard at this like you know put your
whole heart into this work so hard that
you are the envy of the gods
you know this idea the gods are looking
down you and they are envious of the
life you're leading because you're
you're really pushing you know again i'm
sorry you know buddhism in a lot of ways
is a stupid religion i'm an atheist i'm
a nihilist i don't believe in anything
supernatural you know but nevertheless
like you know there's something there's
something there
you know i'm so i'm so sick of the
mediocrity and self-indulgence and
resignationism
resignationism yes i'm coining it as a
phrase of you know
white english speaking middle class
canadians and americans i'm so sick of
people sitting here and saying like
oh look at what's happening in
afghanistan but what can any of us do oh
i can give a thumbs up to this video oh
i can go on kickstarter oh i can i can
sit and judge joe biden morally like i
hate all this and it's all based on
this premise of like oh well there are
thousands of people who need help there
are millions of people who need help you
can't help any one of them no you can
practice the dharma like your hat is on
fire you can exert yourself to the
utmost limit or you are the envy of the
gods you can do everything you can
possibly do and if you went to
afghanistan now if one of you goes to
the afghan border and starts doing
humanitarian work and if you help just
500 people and you know there are 50 000
more people you could have helped you
get to have the satisfaction of saying
hey i did everything i could do you know
and instead i'm sorry to me
richard is a typical toronto canadian
instead what he wants to do is sit and
judge other people as morally inferior
to him even when they do exactly the
same things as he does whether it's
about penis size or the vegan diet or
feeding your dog some kind of dog
no matter how petty or it's about
workout exercise it's about bodybuilding
all he wants to do is sit and play video
games and pass moral judgment other
people and he is not even motivated to
make the world a better place as a
creative artist as a filmmaker
as a youtuber and if you're not why are
you on youtube
shout out to natasha in the audience
natasha says ah i think jasmine is
pretty
i i have okay i have heard heterosexual
women say that
only
only i have never had a gay man
say jasmine
is attractive i've never had a straight
man
say just never
never heard it once
and no offense but when straight women
say that about jasmine what they're
really saying is
there's nothing wrong with her
you know which you know like she doesn't
have acne you know like you know she's
not misshapen
i get that but yeah it's different
seeing the world through the eyes of a
heterosexual man
it's different and you know among the
things you respond to
as heterosexual man it's not just
appearance you respond to women who
would make a good mother has a pretty
deep you know uh biological urge it's
not just about the shape of her face or
body you respond to a woman thinking and
feeling like
you know this is someone who could raise
my kids someone i could share my life
with and obviously she has the opposite
vibes under every single one of those
headaches
totally free i had you sorry i use no
notes this is all 100 off the dome
what is the title of this video i
actually had something else in mind in
particular this is criticism we haven't
even talked about why he got banned so
that's one thing we have not talked
about his comments about this deceased
bodybuilder right we have so yeah
there's a lot of ground to cover and as
i said yeah right right right the title
is the science education channel from
hell we haven't talked about that as
claims to being a scientist okay i'm
continuing to go to catch up with your
comments guys
so i got a question about so i talked
about this in a recent video no big deal
but you know
um
uh
i got a question about saying that
someone is objectively attractive versus
subjectively attractive so i did talk
about this in a in a recent video so
guys when we're talking about the social
sciences and politics very often what we
mean by objective is
inter-subjective so there are there were
subjective judgments there were
inter-subjective judgments and then
there were truly objective judgments so
what is a beautiful painting what is a
valuable painting right now i may own a
painting or whatever i got that flag
hanging in the background i may say look
this has value to me like whatever if i
have a painting my daughter painted okay
to me this painting is meaningful to me
it's valuable whether you think about
that be worth money or whatever you know
i mean to me this is beautiful to me
this is very subjectively to me this is
something you know important yeah fine
okay
but it
it doesn't have objective value in the
sense of inter-subjective value there
aren't 10 000 people at an auction who
will bid and compete and pay money to
buy that painting either because it's
beautiful or important or what have you
all the reasons that make you want to
buy a painting so it is true that is not
that is not truly
um objective now
the objective value of something which
comes up once in a while sometimes
you're looking at a work of art and it's
actually made out of gold and diamonds
and then you're making a further
conscious say well look you know there's
an objective value just the material
that's made there are other senses in
which we use objectives so now we can we
can talk about uh contrasting uh
objective and subjective evaluations so
you know there are there are women who
are beautiful to me
personally and it may be because they're
intelligent it may be maybe because
they're kind
it may be because we have things in
common you know there may be a lot of
reasons you know
and that can lead you to look at someone
in a certain light and appreciate them
even though they have a big nose or like
one of the most objective measures of
all maybe they have acne maybe they have
really bad skin and nobody is going to
say that's a subjective judgment either
someone has clear skin or they have a
lot of acne or whatever they may have an
illness they may also you know whatever
they may have a disability or deformity
like sciatica or something have a
deformed spine which is really a serious
problem
but they're beautiful to you right and
then we can talk about objective you
know evaluations so we in a recent live
stream i i commented to melissa that
she's not just subjectively beautiful
she's also objectively beautiful and i
gave her the example which she could
relate to right away i said melissa if
you get a normal job again like in an
office that has 500 employees some kind
of you know big office i said if you're
in an office with other employees or if
you
go back to university you start studying
chinese universities you're around 500
people that way every day you know
you're moving into classrooms and
chatting with people and and
then there will be multiple men
complaining for your attention and
affection especially if they don't know
you're already married or already in a
serious relationship
that there will be multiple men
competing for you so there may be a
woman i find attractive but i know if
she goes back to university or she goes
into a workplace and people think she's
single there will not be multiple men
competing for us yeah you can talk about
objective and subjective and you know
and that's cool so said that i'm not i'm
not quoting all the comments but there
were different people who responded to
that in different ways and that's fine
so guys you know i just wanna say this
if my talking about this makes you
uncomfortable
go ahead get uncomfortable it's good
okay and then move past that and let's
come to some meaningful analysis and
meaningful conclusions like guys if
we're going to talk about bodybuilding
you're going to get uncomfortable if
we're going to talk about penis size
we're going to talk about veganism
you're going to get uncomfortable okay
and you've got to move you've got to
move past it
i mean you know frankly if we're going
to talk about why vegan gains should be
banned if we're going to talk about
censorship you're going to get
uncomfortable so many people in this
society
they live their lives with this notion
about freedom of speech and they get so
uncomfortable when you start talking
about the necessity of censorship
okay so get uncomfortable it's good
we're going to talk about a lot of stuff
today and and guys and if you're still
uncomfortable send me an email
afterwards or join patreon and send me a
message on patreon i'm happy to hear
from you i'm willing to get
uncomfortable because i want to change
the world and that's why i'm on youtube
i make like 200 a month out of youtube
okay i'm i'm willing to get
uncomfortable with you and in a sense
i'm going to get uncomfortable for you
okay and here's the biggest taboo of all
so i don't know if some of you are going
to write in talking about this
[Music]
do you know how uncomfortable people get
when you tell them that marijuana causes
brain damage do you know how
uncomfortable people get when you tell
them that prescription
psych medications cause brain damage
that they are getting permanent brain
damage from mind-altering drugs given to
them on a prescription basis that are
supposedly antidepressants or supposedly
anti-psychotics some of them are
anti-convulsive agents and so-called
mood stabilizers and so on you know
medications that are supposedly going to
treat what's wrong with their attitude
it's the truth what you have is
an attitude problem and you're
pretending it's a biologically real
disease that can be cured with adderall
right you have an attitude problem
you're pretending can be cured with
haldol or prozac or any of these drugs
and guess what what you get is brain
damage do you have any idea how
uncomfortable people get when you start
talking about brain damage go ahead get
it uncomfortable and you richard
you know that the drugs you're on don't
work you know that the drugs you're on
cause brain damage and you're on social
media promoting them because you'd
rather live in a dream you
become everything you despise period
shout out to unnatural vegan
you heard of this youtube channel
unnatural vegan unnatural vegan you know
that you harmed your own baby by taking
mind-altering drugs during pregnancy and
breastfeeding
you know and i know that you know and
you came out in the most sheepish way
imaginable admitted that you continued
taking
you know psych meds
during your pregnancy and breastfeeding
because you felt it would be best for
you
both of these people vegan gains and a
natural vegan they know how to do a
google search for peer-reviewed
scientific evidence okay they have a
long history of making youtube videos
where they go and get even if it's
cherry-picked even if it's dishonest
even if it's incompetent where they go
out and get the evidence and talk about
brain damage liver damage the health
benefits and defects of a okay
so we know they can do it all right and
you you choose not to because you'd
rather live a dream
while you're awake well i'm not one of
the goddamn dreamers okay i'm one of the
nihilists i want to live my life and die
awake i'd rather be shot in the chest
and be shot in the back all right i know
what i'm out here struggling for
okay you want to live a life based on
faith
you want to live a life based on
self-selected obscurity you want to live
a life based on optimistic ignorance
or do you want to admit to yourself that
the the things you enjoy
the things that make you feel good
may be bad for you they may be killing
you and they may be bad for society and
they may be bad for animals and they may
be bad for the environment they may be
bad for ecology they may be bad for the
world or politics in another sense
and the fact that you enjoy them
justifies nothing do you want to be on
the side of people making excuses or the
people who come on youtube to argue
passionately stop making excuses like
that
that's who you used to be richard you
used to be part of the anti-excuse camp
that's just i'll give her credit
unnatural vegan there was a time however
brief there was a time when you were out
here on youtube telling people to give
up their excuses
you know and now you've become the
opposite you've become the very thing
you hate you've become everything you
you despise
[Music]
catching up with the comments guys
someone says alright p john meadows okay
so look so i've kind of been dancing
around this all right
john meadows
endorse an unhealthy diet
all right john meadows unhealthy diet
killed him
now i do not know to what extent john
meadows admitted the use of performance
dancing drugs i just don't know how
honest he was about that like i don't
know if he was all the way honest or a
little bit honest because these days
most of the bodybuilders they'll kind of
drop hints and fess up
okay i i'm not just being real with you
i have no interest in this guy's youtube
content so i'm not gonna spend two or
three hours watching his videos to get a
sense of how honesty was about steroid
i'm sorry i'm not willing to do that for
john peters okay so rip rip giant metals
right okay
imagine you have a science education
youtube channel
you want to come out and talk about
how john meadow's unhealthy diet advice
contributed to his own early death
imagine you have a science education
youtube channel and you want to talk
about how some of the choices he made in
life maybe concerning drugs alcohol you
know steroid use maybe this is how that
contributed to dns
you could even just imagine back to what
vegan gains own videos were like five
years ago you know i mean like it
doesn't take that much imagination
to think for me to think of someone
doing the research and presenting it
in a respectable way you know that's
what i did talking about brain damage on
my channel i'm not out here ridiculing
people for having brain damage i'm
talking with total sympathy i say look
you people are sad you go into your
doctor you say i'm broken fix me your
doctor says here's the thing for you
it's called prozac it's called haldol
it's called adderall your daughter
your doctor gives you a drug habit you
went in because you're upset you're
morose and your doctor says we have just
the thing to cure what's wrong with you
the problem isn't you
the problem is that you have a bad
attitude the problem isn't that this is
something you can take responsibility
for oh no
here's the cure
that's what richard did
right richard got on these same
drugs that he know of he knows have been
debunked he knows the scientific
literature he knows they don't work and
he knows the negative side effects
are real you know i got i got sympathy
for that i'm not going to ridicule you
for having brain damage and i've made
videos in the past talking about one
prescription drug i took it was for
malaria malaria is a real disease it
wasn't for some made-up disease
like depression wasn't for some
horseshit fad ideology pseudoscience
right malaria really exists i don't know
i have no idea how up i am for
the rest of my life from taking a drug
used to prevent you from contracting
malaria that causes permanent brain i
have no idea
right i have no idea how different i
have to live with that uncertainty
forever so i have sympathy for you right
i used to eat meat i used to eat yogurt
i mean i remember i'm not i'm an
amnesiac everybody in my family still
today some of my friends eat me like i
can't say to you like i refuse to talk
to people even and there were people i
don't even ask
there were people who are fans of my
youtube videos for other reasons and i
know they hear about it enough on my
channel you know and like they respect
me because of politics they respect me
for other reasons
and i don't even ask and i know well if
they listen to my youtube channel they
know what comes up from time to time
they know they're being presented with
it
and you know and there were people who
tell me they became vegan because of my
youtube channel blah blah blah
but like dude
as tough and disconcerting and
disrespectful and disruptive as that
message is like look you think you found
the cure to depression and guess what
you've bought into self-deception
and you're getting permanent brain
damage as a result that's
disturbing okay well guess what your
grandparents told you that beef is
healthy that white chicken breast is
what bodybuilders eat your grandparents
told you that eating certain types of
fish like arctic char is what all the
you grew up with all this programming
and ideology most of the bodybuilders
are into raw
uh chicken eggs you know they use
egg whites and put them in a
blender disgusting you know oh
you know in the if you don't know this
in the german language the word for
protein is egg white
eye weiss
is protein and the german language is
built into the language the idea that
the best source of protein is is chicken
eggs people live with this and they
share the advice with others and they
tell other people i can i talk to an ex
vegan who's like oh you know like butter
tastes good and it tastes good for a
reason because you are evolved to love
the taste of butter so it must be good
for you and you have to bring in the
jarring disturbing advice that no
there's all kinds of that feels
good and tastes good and it's wrong
you know cocaine
tastes good and it will kill you
dogs will go out in the front yard and
will lick up the chemicals that have
leaked out of the bottom of your car
because they like the smell and the
taste of antifreeze and then they will
die
okay wild animals will eat things that
poison them because they smell good and
they look good and they enjoy eating
them and then they keel over and die and
we as animals are no better when i lived
in england
there were little children who went out
in the yard and eat trumpet flowers so
there's a type of flower there's more
than one type of trumpet flower the
trumpet flowers that are commonly grown
in english gardens in england are
incredibly poisonous incredibly toxic
but they look beautiful
and they smell nice and little children
they make up some games like i don't
know why like it's not like they were
starving or something but they went and
they ate these plants and to my
recollection some of them were
hospitalized and got their stomach pump
and i think some actually died okay you
know um
it can smell good it can look good it
can make you feel good all right and
guys if you think if you think that the
struggle we're in now against
antidepressants is tough guess what's
coming next sarms
sarms are next baby
okay if you don't know what sarms are
it's not gonna be long okay because
guess what guess what the good news is
about prozac it doesn't work
all right so people buy into this whole
ideology oh this is going to
solve my problems oh i was born with a
chemical imbalance in my brain
well yeah but
you take
the actual
psychological effects of prozac
aren't worth having the actual
psychological effects of haldol aren't
worth having oh no adderall that's
different
oh now you feel good
now you feel like yourself oh that was
what was wrong with me especially the
first few weeks later you become a
crippling addict for some people
interestingly xanax is not consistent
some people love the feeling of xanax
some people hate it not everyone
responds in the same way yeah how about
cocaine guys how different is that oh so
your first but dudes if you start if you
start shooting up
if you start shooting up testosterone
booster when you start using
testosterone you start using things that
modify your your hormone system okay
talk about a pure natural high it's
completely unnatural but the high is now
oh now your testosterone is boosted and
almost every single one of the
performance enhancing drugs there are
some exceptions some of the performance
nancy drugs are instead based on your
your red blood cell count
but most of the performance enhancing
drugs people use either their primary
effect is boosting testosterone or it's
a secondary or tertiary effect like
their primary effect may be something
else but then that leads to your body
over producing testosterone of course
there's direct testosterone building so
steroids sarms so-called hormone
replacement therapy testosterone
boosters of every kind
guess what guys when you get on
testosterone all of a sudden
you ain't depressed you ain't depressed
at all you're highly motivated you feel
amazing
and you don't even think you're on a
drug high i feel like the canary in the
coal mine for this is the female to male
transgender community there are women
and it's mostly
ex-transgender people who talk about
this but there are transgender people
there are people who are still
transgender who are willing to talk with
us there are women who think they have
all these psychological problems and
they're so unhappy so they go to a
psychiatrist and they decide to
transition between genders
and then they really feel like they made
the right decision because as soon as
they start taking testosterone booster
all their problems in life seems oh i
used to be shy and now i'm
self-confident i used to be moping and
depressed and now i'm waking up at six
o'clock in the morning and going to the
gym there are all these effects on your
sex life and your psychology
and it's a drug high right
it's a drug trip so if you think this is
a tough fight now
with the excuses being made for uh for
antidepressants it's only gonna get
tougher
because the drugs that have already been
around for 40 years in terms of
steroids performance interest they've
become cheaper and more readily
available
and there are new drugs there are the
sarms there's the next generation coming
out right
and they're
even if they have no advantage the fact
that they haven't been debunked as
effective the fact that there isn't
scientific research pointing out
the negative side effects and
disadvantages and what they are the fact
that you know just because it's new
because it's a new development right
now you're really up against uh
self-justifying mentality you know
so yeah i mean
you know i said this about veganism you
know the excuses for eating meat are
harder to quit than the meat you know we
could say this about
antidepressants it's the excuses for
antidepressants that are hard to quit
that's harder to quit than the
antidepressants itself right but guess
what homie once you're a testosterone
addict you're a testosterone addict for
life if you are a man your testicles
shut down your body's natural hormone
balance shuts down
forever you never recover you've been
made into a you've been made
into a lifelong drug addict and now the
question you have to ask yourself every
day is just how much you're going to
abuse that drug
like so once it becomes that once it
becomes that you get your testosterone
out of a bottle and by the way one of
the common ways to do is with the gel
you don't have to inject it you can do
it through the skin right
how much jelly gonna put on so now you
wake up in the morning and you put on
the jungle think oh i feel good it's
like
it's not that different from coffee
right have i had enough coffee to go to
work today
what if what if you put on twice as much
testosterone gel or inject twice as much
take twice a minute oh now now you feel
good
so in that case it's not just the
excuses that are hard to quit
it's the drug itself that's hard to quit
and and guess what
when you quit taking testosterone
booster whatever the format whatever the
drug because again many there are many
different performance sensing drugs that
that uh that boost testosterone then you
have
chemically
induced depression then you're in a
situation where you feel listless you
feel no ambition you have no sex drive
many men report they can't get an
erection at all
now you feel depressed in a way that
never existed in nature in the whole
evolutionary history of our
species you know
okay i'm reading here i'm reading your
comments guys sorry for the radio
silence i'm just trying to catch up
in response to my question can you ever
remember uh richard mentioning a book
he's read so we got the name of one of
the one of the manga he met right so he
read he read some japanese comic books
mostly i've heard him talk about
hardcore porn from japan that he reads
or watches but yes so there was one
one manga he quoted one japanese comic
book so
there you go this gives you a sense of
just how much or how little intellectual
development he's been through you know
so someone asks um
if if vegan gains is a is a closeted
homosexual
um
you know i wouldn't i wouldn't uh
uh i wouldn't imagine that richard is a
repressed homosexual i don't i don't see
that but you know i think he is utterly
lacking the kind of warmth and
positivity
and you know frankly humility and
you know self-analysis and self-doubt
that's needed to have a positive sex
life you know you got to do that you got
to do that for years and in some ways
you got to do it forever so you know
look it may sound weird coming from me
most people on the internet talk about
that you need to have self-confidence
to have a good sex life well you can
have too much self-confidence
you know you can you can be in a
situation what you need is more
self-doubt you know you know there's a
lot of insects you know i'm okay are you
okay
really having sensitivity to other
person's feelings and
really thinking about their feelings
before they complain about them you know
what i mean it's not like you're not
like you take it to a point where
they're
complaining you know there's a huge
important role for for self-criticism
and self-doubt and sexuality that's part
of being a loving partner
uh even look i'm just gonna even if
you're just doing hardcore porn even if
you're meeting up with somebody you talk
for 15-20 minutes and then you film a
porn scene together and you know like
there really is no relationship
still really being sensitive and
self-critical and caring about someone's
feelings
um there's a lot that goes into that and
so that's what he's lacking you know he
lacks being magnanimous
entirely
and i think that that
you know he has this kind of crippling
debilitating
intellectual problem
which is why his sexuality is so weird
and so strange
but no i mean there's never been any
sign that he desires
to be with men
um
and you know not even his interests he's
not really interested in other men's
bodies that way and so on you know
sorry a lot of a lot of
a lot of comments for me to catch up
with here i'm trying to
okay so the the issue of censorship
comes up here again again i'm sorry i
don't know how much time has passed
since you you guys made these comments
um
you know imagine
if instagram
did not allow
pictures of swimsuits
at all
what if instagram what if they had a
rule
that you couldn't show any more flesh
than you could in a t-shirt what if they
even ever will all i could show is your
hands and your hands and face
no this is going to sound ridiculous
let's take it all the way you can't even
wear tight clothing
all right um
obviously the whole character of
instagram and people's
messages with each other on instagram
would be different right
now on the other hand what if instagram
allowed nudity what if instagram allowed
hardcore pornography you know how that
would change it you know so censorship
matters and it matters positively just
in separating things into separate
categories you know um if you want you
know the fact that you don't want
instagram to become a hardcore porn
platform doesn't mean you're morally
opposed to pornography existing on
planet earth there's just a different
website you can go to for hardcore
pornography the fact that you want them
to be separate magazines that you don't
want the politics magazine and the
hardcore porn magazine to be
one of the same you know it doesn't mean
you're against it um
existing absolutely so i think there is
a lot of demonization of
of censorship but you know censorship is
a kind of self-definition now i'll say
that again
you know what defines you
if you produced your own magazine i know
it's old-fashioned obviously this
applies to youtube channel or anything
else but let's just you were writing
articles and producing your own magazine
and it starts off with you every every
issue you're writing multiple articles
it's a monthly magazine and you try to
involve some of your friends and
relatives and
contributing articles this magazine you
know
and then one of your friends writes an
article that you feel isn't good enough
there's something offensive about it
it's it's too stupid it's too
mean-spirited let's say mean spirit is
the problem they write an article
and they say you will look come on you
got to fill up this whole magazine you
can't write ourselves why don't you
publish my article in your magazine you
could say back no
this magazine
is defined by what i refuse to publish
you know like the fact that i am
excluding that article the fact that i'm
saying no that's too mean-spirited or
that's too stupid that's too offensive
that's what defines the magazine
you know it's easy to say the magazine
is defined by what you do publish but
what you do say but what you do right
but there's also this really
you know this really important point
where you are defining your publication
you are defining yourself
you know through editorial control
through what you reject so you know
censorship is a form of self definition
now i'll say this too um at the risk of
boring my girlfriend because something
we've talked about before
you know
um
language
is not a method of writing
language is not a method of
communication
and language is not even method of
recording events from the past at its
most fundamental language is a method of
thinking
we think in language when we're alone we
think in language in our dreams
right and we have to think a language
before we can write something or publish
something you know when you censor
yourself
when you really try to speak accurately
you know what i mean
you are also
trying to think accurately you're
forcing yourself to think actually so
you know it's very easy to say
insulting things about people it's very
easy to say defamatory things with
people where you're just being
approximate and imprecise and you're not
forcing yourself to really think
precisely and really uh speak accurately
but you know
one of the one of the things i've done
on live streams and i've drawn attention
to it sometimes i refer to a woman as a
girl
and i stop i say no young woman you know
so you know i was talking to this girl
young woman she was about 21 and then i
keep going with the anecdote you know
you know i'm forcing myself
to speak accurately because i wanna i
wanna think accurately you know and that
is
self-censorship
and you should censor yourself that is
one of the most powerful acts of
defining who you are and with time over
years it changes who you are you become
a better person and you think more
precisely so you know in this video i've
said negative things about richard but
all of them are true you know i see so
many commentary videos on youtube that
make criminal allegations about people
and make innuendo and say say things
about people's sex lives that are not
remotely true
and a lot of the time it doesn't seem to
me like the person is intentionally
lying that they're intentionally
creating a myth they're just thinking in
a very sloppy way where they don't want
to question themselves contrary to
themselves self-censor and force
themselves to really think and speak
accurately you know
just catching up with your comments
okay so we have one person in the
audience i don't know if you're still
here who is defending uh prozac who
claims this supposed to be babe can you
grab the book for me
so i'm gonna i'm gonna give you a book
to read
audrey
you claim this helps you
okay i will give you the link at amazon
i think i can send a link
you know i'll just type out what the
google got
okay audrey so this is for you you can
google this and you get the book
audrey you've heard me say
that these drugs you're making excuses
for cause brain damage
i notice you don't say that i'm wrong
i notice you don't say that i'm
incorrect
i notice you don't say that i'm ignorant
i notice you don't claim that i don't
know what i'm talking about
you don't say that i haven't done the
reading
i think it's because you you know
you know that i do
know what i'm talking about
all right
what you say is
that you feel
that this drug works for you
okay audrey
before you come out in public
and you claim this drug works and for
some reason you're not making the claim
it doesn't cause brain damage isn't that
interesting isn't that strange why
wouldn't you say oh no that's not true
no no so on some level you are aware
that this causes brain damage you just
think that you have
an excuse for it you think you have an
excuse good enough to justify the
negative side effects to justify the
brain damage okay audrey how about you
read this one book
now
a few times you could watch videos that
are on my youtube channel that present a
whole ton of the scientific facts
and there were videos on my channel but
there were it's not me speaking i've
edited it together i did an intro and
outro but where it's a whole series of
clips from medical experts who spent
years of their lives doing research and
publishing peer-reviewed papers right
it's not my opinion okay audrey you can
you can hear that right but don't you
think
don't you think that what you're doing
is irresponsible
and even evil
let's let's talk about the world's most
popular drug
alcohol
alcohol causes brain damage
audrey are you aware that marijuana
causes brain damage what if someone said
the same thing to you that you've just
said to me quote it's just how my brain
is quote it works well for me quote it
helps me with anxiety
okay
if you think
alcohol
helps you with your anxiety
you're an addict
alcohol does help people with their
anxiety
if
they're alcoholics
oh yeah yeah yeah you know marijuana oh
yeah helps with anxiety
you're talking about taking a sedative
you use marijuana you're sedated when
you use it regularly you're addicted to
sedatives
you think that helps you with your
anxiety and you think that doesn't cause
brain damage
really
audrey
you should be ashamed of yourself
now i'm asking you
to hold yourself to a higher standard
the same standard we're here expecting
vegan gains told himself to right
like dude do the research dude take
responsibility for the message you're
putting out in the world right and by
the way just again it doesn't have to be
a positive message
i'm totally fine with people coming up
on the internet
and saying you know their grandpa died
and they're
upset about it or how much they are
disappointed with the canadian
government you can share your misery and
your failure and your disappointment and
your agony i am the last person to say
it needs to be a positive message i
think you have got to take
responsibility for the consequences
of the message you you share right and i
think about that even when i'm talking
about like my university when i say hey
this is a terrible university here's my
terrible experience but i feel like i
have to be scrupulously honest and
accurate so i'm not going to damage
someone else's life so i'm not going to
screw up someone else's life whether
that's the professors or other students
right i'm not going to overstep
you know certain lines even antagonists
on that right where i really know you
know so
you know audrey what you have just said
about these drugs
and how they make you feel
have you ever talked to a cocaine addict
about how cocaine makes them feel
do you believe cocaine causes brain
damage or would you accept a completely
subjective argument from a cocaine
addict
that all it certainly certainly helps
with your anxiety
yeah right right it's your right it's
your brain chemistry right
that's right yeah
okay so good question sir guys a lot of
good comments and i'm i'm trying to read
through them you know glad to see
clara's see people are still here and
putting up with uh
putting up with these you know frankly
hard to deal with
this i understand this stuff is
disturbing i understand it's going to
make you uncomfortable you know so james
macpine says
quote how can people deal with
depression anxiety body dysmorphia or an
eating disorder without drugs give these
people an effective alternative isil
okay so james i don't know how old you
are
i don't know what kind of experience you
have in life
all right
i have never once on my channel
said that everyone should read aristotle
i have never once in my channel
said that everyone should read
thucydides now in case you don't know
what i'm talking about here some people
don't know these names i'm going to type
them out for aristotle
and thucydides it's these are
really important books
from
ancient greece
all right
i don't think
there is one solution to everyone's
problems even to the extent of
recommending that everyone in this
audience should read aristotle and
thucydides
one pardon me one-on-one i talk to
individual people
i get to know them i understand their
problems understand their aspirations
their ambitions their research interests
and i say yeah
you
you need to read aristotle if this is
what you're doing and this okay well
here's what and it's very specific i'm
not saying read everything by aristotle
well you know there's this book by
aristotle that deals with that okay i
think
the error you're making here james that
you may not realize
is that you are implicitly medicalizing
these conditions as if they were
equivalent to diabetes
right
like oh well how do you deal with
diabetes and then we scientifically
understand what diabetes is there's type
1 type 2 type 3 and then we can give
advice if you are diabetic you should
eat more of this eat less of that that
we can give recommendation for diabetes
that will be equally true
of one diabetic person and another okay
if you are quote unquote depressed you
do not have a biologically real
condition that makes you in any way
comparable to someone else who is
diagnosed with depression never has
never asked me guess what guys
why don't you just talk to the other
people in the waiting room when you're
going to get your so-called meds
oh why are you here
uh well my father died
and i started being depressed and you
know i was coping with it by really
overeating
and i had no sex drive so that's
diagnosed as depression there's another
person in the same waiting room getting
the same medication
supposedly to cure the same chemical and
balance in their brain oh well why are
you here oh well um i broke up with my
girlfriend
and i've been depressed and since i
broke up with her i haven't met someone
new yet and my sex drive is really high
and i've been losing weight i've been
nervous and not eating and
the symptoms are totally different and
one person's depression
involves sleeping too much they sleep
more hours than they do and another
person is sleeping less they find they
can't sleep they're nervous and jumpy
one person gains weight one person loses
weight one person has uh an increased
sex drive one person feels no sex
driving oh gee and this is all one
biologically real condition and all of
these symptoms and all these scenarios
whether it's that you miss your deceased
father or you broke up with your
girlfriend or maybe you're depressed
because you're cheating on your
girlfriend you have a girlfriend and
you're you're dealing with the stress of
having a second girlfriend you know
people get depressed for all kinds of
reasons you're depressed because of the
pressure of studying oh right and yeah
and here is one in the same pill
that will cure this quote-unquote
chemical imbalance in the brain that
scientifically never existed
so james i i know your question is well
intentioned but what i'm directing you
to do is examine the assumptions that
are the base of it because i don't even
believe in recommending that everyone
read the same book and reading a book
will not give you brain damage
um now the other examples you give so do
you do you have the delusion that
depression is one thing in the same
sense that you know like type 2 diabetes
is one thing that unites together people
like i've already talked about
ridiculous that is right
you think anxiety
is one thing
one biological there's an amazing array
of things that are described as anxiety
are you kidding me you think body
dysmorphia is one thing
have you known
three different people with bodies more
than totally different totally different
you know psychological problems
reflecting different particular
background you know and sometimes people
will tell you oh yeah they have this
specific form of body dysmorphia because
they grew up in this condition with this
mother it can be very specific like
their father was a gym coach who wanted
them to be an olympic athlete and in
gymnastics or something like there are
really specific reasons why people have
biting smoke their people have bites
morphia because their older sister was
more beautiful than them and they were
trying to look at their older sister and
it's not the same
it's not one thing
it's a it's a category applied to
totally miscellaneous experiences of
human misery
you know and you want one alternative in
the same sickening ridiculous way that
one pill
is supposed to cure all these people
just saying just tell me
there was a time
when i'd separated from my wife now
we're legally divorced so first you're
separated then you're legally
you know i was very sad because i
couldn't see my daughter still sad about
it split up i couldn't see my daughter
anymore and all these people were lying
to me and manipulating me and treating
me like crap i really it's not worth
getting there were a lot of people being
cruel to me when they should have been
kind exactly the people i relied on to
be honest with me including my lawyer of
that time people were lying to me and
manipulating me and doing things about
my back it was a terrible terrible
situation do you guys have any doubt
that at that time
if i had gone and told the doctor about
this just a just normal md do you have
any doubt that i could have been
prescribed
mind-altering medications like this
whether antidepressants or what
do you have any doubt that somebody
remember oh oh gee well that sounds like
a real problem here's the cure for that
sure sure sure no but either way no
either way so melissa says
if you're having trouble sleeping
because you're thinking about how much
you miss your daughter okay but also the
opposite what if you're sleeping too
long you go and you say oh you know i'm
sleeping 11 hours a day because i'm so
depressed either one it's taken as a
symptom for the same condition for the
same cure
they will give me
the same drug
that they gave richard that they gave
vegan gains like what's vegan gaines's
problem he has
violent fantasies about killing
he's this violent
malevolent
depressed person it's a totally
different form of so-called different we
call them both depression she you sit
around in your apartment playing violent
video games you have these violent
outbursts and all this stuff with guns
and knives and all you okay you got all
this
okay we're gonna call that depression
and we're gonna give you the same
treatment there are even more diverse
things that can be classified as anxiety
or eating disorder or whatever there are
totally different human experiences
totally different problems of attitude
total problems of philosophy totally
different problems in terms of cognition
in terms of really like mental
disability like part of richard's
problem is that he's stupid we all know
this right whether or not he ever gets
diagnosed as having a learning
disability or mental disability he you
know he has a history of very serious
concussion is this is he has a history
of brain damage and problems caused by
um injury to his to his brain you know
history of brain injury okay so like
who in their right mind would look at my
situation where i've split up with my
wife probably have split up with my wife
and i miss seeing my daughter and
compare that to richard who's fanatic
fanatically hates babies fanatically
hates having children and anyone who has
children and who has violent fantasies
about
you know and oh oh no
it's the same it's the same chemical
imbalance
with the same cure
uh-huh
whether you
gain weight or lose weight whether you
you know
whether you sleep too much or
sleep too little
so ron sims says that he was put on
psych meds at one point for autism so
ron has talked about his uh dubious
autism diagnosis for he still doesn't
really know if in some sense
he's meaning he's autistic or not
because but anyway he's living a moral
normal life so if he is autistic he's
just slightly autistic but yeah
um
he said that the the psychomeds he was
put on left him quote a howling mess and
a doll
thanks for writing in ron i appreciate
your honesty on these things and you
know the other question is just to what
extent are the meds pardon me impairing
your sleep
because any psychological condition you
have
is made worse by sleep deprivation and a
lot of these meds reduce the quality of
your sleep or reduce the quantity of
your sleep now you have impaired sleep
and then you start having all kinds of
other
psychological problems that you may or
may not attribute to lack of sleep
because you may not be able to perceive
it like you're lying in bed for the
right number of hours but you don't
realize you know
um
[Music]
you don't realize the extent of which
that's impacting your life directly and
indirectly
okay so audrey has has doubled down and
is still defending this sorry i do want
to move on to other topics and we got to
wrap up talking about the
what's in the title of this video okay
so audrey you say quote
it took me two years to get my brain
back to 100 after trying that drug close
quote so you not
do available
brain damage you think if you if you
were willing to read one book
one book
you think your view that the brain
damage is not permanent would be
sustainable really you don't think that
mistake
had permanent consequences for you for
the rest of your life you think there
are you think there's science to back
that up that it's not
permanent brain damage they're not
permanent changes
in the structure of the brain really
you know you're bullshitting you know
you're living a lie look guys you know
what i compare this to so i'm jewish
ethnically
i'm not a member of the jewish religion
you think jewish people don't live with
these kinds of justifications about
circumcision
like you lose about 40 of the nerve
endings in your penis
oh well you know i have this really good
excuse for what
just recognize that you're making
excuses
you know what i mean you recognize you
know
you know that this causes permanent
brain damage all right and whatever you
want to say about
you recognize that this causes permanent
brain damage now what you have to
recognize is that you're making excuses
for it you have to stop making excuses
sorry so i am reading all your comments
guys that's why you have a little bit of
silence here
so uh we get another vote from quite
jaded from someone who says that jasmine
is not ugly she has some features that
some people might find attractive
so i had a friend who um vegan gains led
into their more private circle of people
who watch these private live streams
they do from their apartment so i forget
if you did that over
uh discord or what but he i forget what
the format was but he used to have more
footage again for people he trusted
of them walking around their their
apartment and so on you know um i'm
sorry but i really can't separate
the way someone looks
from their intellectual and emotional
character you know
now admittedly when you see a photograph
beautifully taken by a professional
photographer that's exactly what it does
like you know a great photographer will
make someone look intelligent who's a
complete idiot they'll get their face
and their their eyes just the right
moment where their eyes are focused in a
certain way wow you know so whether it's
a hollywood actress or anything else
there are very stupid people who are who
are made to look engaging and
intelligent what have you but you know
anyone if you know them even for for 15
minutes or 30 minutes
you know the ultimate reason why jasmine
is is repulsive is because she's a
repulsive character it's because of who
she is intellectually and uh and
ethically and emotionally you know
so you know uh is it impossible to take
a picture of jasmine that would that
would be flattering that would get her
no you know i'm not gonna i'm not gonna
dispute that you know that you can take
a flattering picture of her but um
[Music]
yeah i mean she is the worst kind of
self-indulgent frankly you know
malevolent and self-righteous
video game addict she's a terrible
person
and i can't imagine anyone having a
15-minute conversation with her and
finding her
charming or lovely or attractive or
still finding her uh attractive so you
know
so yeah you know i'm just saying that
the the judgment that someone is uh
uh someone is repulsive involves all
these things
[Music]
boom tendo says looking great looks like
you lost some weight i have not lost one
pound
just being just being real with you i i
weighed myself i think yesterday so no
i i have not lost one pound
we'll see we'll see if i lose anyway but
anyway um i am now trying to work out
more because um
switch up the pace of working on the
book for about eight months all my time
energy was going
okay guys so uh i've read all your
comments uh not everything is worth
replying to no offense i'm gonna wrap up
coming back to the title this youtube
video if you guys have more to say that
is on topic no offense but we're gonna
come back and talk a little bit more
narrowly about vegan gains colon the
science education channel from hell
um
you may disagree with me
i feel that we would all agree
that what vegan gains says he is
supposed to do that what vegan gain says
his aspiration to do on youtube is is
really a tremendously positive thing
that we need more of in the world right
like it would be wonderful if someone
were really doing what he
pretends to do what he says he's trying
to do
but the
you know tragedy is that what he claims
to be
a
science education channel what he claims
to be educational and informative and
reaching out to people and engaging in
debate and so on it's not that at all i
mean it becomes nothing but a parade for
his own you know tremendously fragile
ego
now
i challenge you guys the way you can
disagree with me you can give your own
opinion when i look at vegan gains i
don't see a self-confident person i see
someone who is tremendously fragile i
see someone who responds to me making a
video talking about penis size
by harassing me about my own penis size
and boasting about his penis size then
eventually he goes public with it starts
posting pictures of his penis i see
vegan gains being you know tremendously
fragile even in talking about diet and
exercise you know weight loss about
being thin
and about
weight gain meaning gaining muscle you
know and i don't know if you guys have
seen there are moments other youtube
channels have cobbled together of him
freaking out and getting incredibly
upset because someone says he's fat
someone says he's overweight someone
says he needs to to lose weight or be
leaner and obviously he himself has
talked about his feelings of
self-loathing about not being muscular
enough not being
enormous enough that he wants to be you
know perceived this way so you know
richard is a grown man now
you know
what kind of grown man bases his
self-confidence
on the size of his penis
what kind of grown man bases his
self-confidence on the size of his
muscles or frankly like within reason
how thin you are you know like i
understand if you're 300 pounds
overweight or something you know for 400
pounds
okay i understand this is a problem but
you know within within reasonable limits
you know in a very simple sense what
does any of it matter
well the point is
what does it matter
compared to something else right you
know my ego isn't based on any one thing
in particular you know i mean
my sense of feeling good about myself to
say say briefly in two points is based
on leading a meaningful life
all the time
every day
even if i'm busy with a newborn infant
in my arms when my daughter was a
newborn infant i would rock her to sleep
by the way i'm doing it like this you
use your whole body i got a big workout
you know anyway i would i would rock her
to sleep in my arms and then when she
was asleep i literally picked up and
started reading thucydides i was reading
politics of ancient greece and rome at
that time it's a very special time in
life i'm taking care of this infant i'm
mopping the floor i'm cooking i'm
struggling to lead a meaningful life
even then while taking care of my
daughter as a newborn infant
sometimes i'd lay her down to sleep and
i'd put in one headphone you know you'd
have to have one ear in case she wakes
up in the cribs i'd layer down in the
crib and then i'd go to do the dishes
yeah that's you know when the baby's
asleep that's your chance to do dishes
and i would do dishes the crib would be
right there the way i could i could see
it and i'd do dishes and i listened to
herodotus because in the harada this is
another ancient greek
uh
herrera
yeah
you know i listened to i was listening
to a meaningful book on tape and one of
my memories is i can remember walking
past her crib because every so often in
herodotus it would mention some obscure
place like somewhere in in turkey or
something that's probably like where is
that on a map and i would i'd be
watching this and i'd drive my hands and
i'd really as quietly as possible you
know while trying to stop my hands i
would tiptoe past my daughter's crib and
then go to the computer and google like
where is this place in ancient turkey or
ancient egypt or something you know i go
back to watch this you know
what is my ego based on you know what
it's based on the struggle to lead a
meaningful life which is a struggle that
never ends it's a struggle that's with
you every day whether you're busy
working at mcdonald's you're busy
working at starbucks you're in the army
or you're taking care of a newborn
infant where you're learning you're
progressing you're leading a a
meaningful life you know all the time
and then beyond that right
it's and this guy's this does not come
to you as a teenager if you're watching
this as a teenager i guarantee you don't
know what i mean by this
yet okay
my ego my sense of self confidence is
based on doing the best
i can
all right even if you fail again and
again and again just i'm just going to
use this example quickly because i just
mentioned it guys i'm not the greatest
expert on aristotle i'm not the greatest
expert on thucydides or herodotus i am
not the greatest expert on anything to
do with ancient rome or ancient greece i
meet people with phds in that field from
time to time and they seem to know less
than i do there are a lot of people with
phds don't really you don't really know
that much you can't have that
interesting conversation it doesn't
matter okay but the point is whether i
meet someone with a phd or meet someone
with some totally different background
whatever it is i don't go into the
conversation acting like i have the
biggest penis in the world right i don't
go into the conversation as if i have
the biggest muscles in the world or as
if i'm better than you i go into the
conversation saying and feeling annoying
like hey
i'm doing the best i can even if i don't
know everything about ancient greece i
mean sorry here's one book i haven't
read it's very important book xenophon
um i've read several different books by
xenophon some are better than others by
the way i have read many books but this
particular book by xenophon i have never
read yet and somebody could easily say
oh well you must just be a beginner
no i've been reading about the politics
of ancient greece and rome for decades
but i never got around to this one you
know well look you know there are holes
in my knowledge there are imperfections
there are things i don't know there are
things i'm ignorant of i have
shortcomings i have flaws i have biases
right i have questions but i go into
this conversation with a kind of
confidence that's based on just knowing
that i am doing the best i can and i
have years and years and years behind me
of hard work of trying to do the best i
can now guys this thing with vegan
activism
right you know
we can ask richard richard are you now
or were you ever
doing the best you can really
really are you trying to save the world
are you trying to save the animals and i
talked to them i'm sorry there were
different points i remember i was in
chiang mai and i asked richard like dude
would you come back to chiang mai look
we will be back he'd never been there
but i've been there repeatedly dude
would you come and join me in chima i
can introduce you to other vegan
activists you can make a difference and
he was basically like no he was too lazy
you know he wanted to keep on living the
same life with video games and dogs and
stuff like you know
taking a vacation in chiang mai to go
and meet other vegan activists is that
really doing the best is that really
heroic or extraordinary is that even as
much work as reading xenophon or
thucydides or aristotle like really
doing that it's really it's really
nothing you know i when i was pursuing
vegan activism when i was trying to do
that i gave it 110 i was doing the best
i can when i tried to do an answering
and i failed
okay there's a sense in which every
single area of my life i've had
ambitions in i failed but i did the best
i could and i became a better person as
a result and exactly what's missing from
richard's life and it does relate to his
self-esteem it does relate to his
self-image it does
relate to his disregard for his disdain
for others the way he has to belittle
other people to feel good about himself
right he has not been doing the best he
can and he hasn't developed into a
better person as a result over the years
and years and years that he's been on
youtube so as i see a lot of a lot of
comments coming in so i'm just i'm just
uh i'm just gonna take a moment to reply
to someone
[Music]
okay so guys there are a couple
different questions asking
about what is the benefit of this kind
of reading what is the benefit of this
kind of education i think one that
that's very succinct is quote
what do you do with this knowledge so
shout out to you thanks you've been here
this whole time i appreciate you being
in the live stream you've been here
before uh it's from a guy called do you
want to give me lucas for whatever
reason that's his youtube name so he
asked simply
what do you want to do with this
knowledge
you're asking the wrong question
the question is who do you want to be
who do you want to become with this
knowledge okay
what you do
changes who you are
what you learn
what you understand
changes who you are
okay
sometimes
gradually
sometimes suddenly
you want a great example
veganism
people live their whole lives i remember
my mother
my mother was above 50 years old and she
did not know the difference between a
bull and a steer
and she was shocked and horrified when i
explained to her that animals are
castrated on farms
not a few hundred not a few thousand
millions
billions
you know oh gee
what do you think the difference is
between a wild boar
and a pig raised in confinement this way
guess what castration is a huge part of
it guys
you know
um
very simple things people don't know
what
you know what a hot dog is as a child
you're given a hot dog in japan little
children are given sushi and generally
they're often given fish that's been cut
into little
red squares it doesn't look like an
animal they don't know where it has no
eyes you know it has no face
they just encounter this as a little red
cube
and
we encounter the hot dog just as this
faceless
morsel
you know
and you may not think about how that's
produced you may not think about what
the consequences are okay
and what you know
changes how you feel
right
and then how you feel and what you do
and what you learn from there what
happens next and that cycle of suffering
and that cycle of learning that changes
who you are okay i am not reading this
book in order to do something right this
is not a manual
right for how to
assemble a car engine
all right
i'm reading this manual because there's
somebody i want to be and i now in my
40s get to live with the uplifting joy
every day of already being the person i
want to be i already embody all the
virtues i aspire to have back when i was
a teenager
and it wasn't easy
it was a long hard harrowing
process with unbelievable heartbreak
and disappointment
involved you know now guys sorry i'll
give this as an example because it may
be one you can relate to it's not
something richard is going to do it's
not something vegan gains is ever going
to do he seems to have no interest in
doing any activism related to veganism
anymore i don't know why okay so you
guys know
you know there are
there are terrible human humanitarian
crises right now connected to syria
there are some connected to
afghanistan if you were talking to me
one-on-one about what you could do
very few people do but once in a while
people people have a kind of
consultation because they have a
background humanitarian work i have a
background in politics you know what i
mean like the ultimate question is
who are you going to be who are you
going to become by the end of this
process because it's not going to be the
rest of your life like it's not
reasonable to think you're now going to
move to afghanistan and never come back
and just know that
some sometimes possible it's possible
you go to afghanistan you stay till
you're
90 years old and that's it you you it's
you're done but the odds are this is
going to be a period of your life where
you're involved with humanitarian issues
in syria or humanitarian issues in
afghanistan but for you not just some
person at random for you specifically
how are you going to develop who are you
going to become that's more important
than asking what are you going to do
right and you're going to learn things
that aren't written in any book you know
you're going to learn things or that may
be incidental or unintentional you know
to the book sir i was just reading this
book about the assassination of martin
luther king jr
um and there's a long interview with one
of the assassins one of the guys who
actually participated in carrying out
the assassination in case you didn't
know it wasn't just one guy big surprise
but you know um
you know
part of what you learn in reading that
interview
is just what it was like to grow up
in memphis at that time and what it was
like for him as a as a career criminal
who never read a book in his life he
talked a lot about his life and his
perspective on the world you know you
you know and he he talked about what it
was like having a father
who was openly racist in the deep south
a father who was a member of racist
organizations and so on and how he sees
it now i mean that's not what the book
is about but that's part of what you
benefit in the same way
even if you you define your humanitarian
agency your humanitarian project very
strictly as just being providing food to
starving people you're gonna learn so
much else in in doing that you're gonna
learn what it's like to be
on the border of afghanistan or the
border of syria and to try to get your
truck repaired you know what i mean and
then you deal with all these human
elements you didn't see coming now if
you have
some
human decency which vengeance does not
if you have some sympathy
if you have some depth of empathy right
then when you engage in vegan activism
you also learn this this stuff too right
you learn all this stuff from working
with other people and hearing other
people including that other people tell
you why they tried to make a vegan diet
work but it failed and they just
couldn't do it
as stupid as that may be i have sympathy
for like i know what people are going
through people who tried to lose weight
and they couldn't lose weight people
tried to gain muscle and couldn't when
you really work with them and sympathize
with them and understand what they're
going through there can be so much that
comes out positively
from veganism or vegan activism as a
humanitarian project but of course he
does he does
you know so i have some people joining
the chat now who are just shocked to
learn
that uh vegan gains channel has been
deleted it is probably temporary but yes
as of this moment vegan gains has
disappeared uh from youtube and some of
you are probably here just because you
were you were googling to see what what
had happened with this channel and why
it disappeared welcome to the welcome to
the crowd we're kind of wrapping up and
giving giving final conclusions here i
am reading the comments i'm interested
because of something
uh something significant to say you know
so
you know all right
vegan gains if you think about what his
youtube channel
was supposed to be
and you can look at it in different
periods of his channel each one of which
was derivative of someone else's
influence right like he had a period of
time where he was trying to imitate ask
yourself and do these uh highly
confrontational debates he had a period
of time where he was imitating this
youtube channel and that youtube channel
um
but you know the higher aspiration
that's there to actually have a science
education channel and to actually
respond to something like the death of
this
bodybuilder so i'm sorry to my memory
this guy died at age 49
and to really talk about that seriously
and sincerely and say look guys you may
be making choices about your diet
and it tastes good and it feels good and
people can eat a meat diet and they
don't even get fat
you can eat as this guy proved this
bodybuilder proof you can have a high
cholesterol meat diet and
they're a bodybuilder they look
beautiful or they're on the cover of
cosmopolitan magazine or men's health
magazine this is epidemic there are tons
of gorgeous people eating uh
you know eating a meat based diet or
high cholesterol diet okay it may taste
good it may feel good it may be that
when you look in the mirror you like
what you see
but i'm here to tell you on my science
education channel that notwithstanding
all of that what you're doing still
fundamentally is bad and evil and wrong
and you know what you could find out
because like kevin smith
you end up in the hospital with a heart
attack and it might be you never find
out because you don't wake up in the
hospital you have that first heart
attack and there never is a second heart
attack you never have a second chance
because you drop dead and you never come
back
and you know what else
you might live your whole life in a
state of blissful ignorance where you
never ask and answer that simple
question every four-year-old ask their
parents where does my food come from
what is this what is inside the hotdog
where does my food come from that that's
on this plate where you never get
interested in that and you never
take responsibility
for it you know
you may never deal with the consequences
you may never suffer negative health
consequences yourself and you may never
see the ecological consequences or the
ethical consequences of the way in which
you're destroying the world for your own
ignorant self-indulgent diet
you know but this youtube channel is
here to shake you out of your
indifference and really let you know in
a meaningful sense that what you're
doing is bad and evil and wrong we need
people on youtube now more than ever who
are positively motivated to do the job
that vegan gains took on but as soon as
he had money as soon as he had fame he
lost all interested he went into a
downward spiral of self-indulgence you
know and i closed this video by asking a
question same question i asked at the
beginning
who
who today
is coming on youtube with that positive
motivation of trying to save the world
who is coming out here trying to make
the world a better place
you know
it can't all be about money it can't all
be about fame it can't all be about
getting laid someone has to be positive
motivated to do the right thing just
because it's the right thing to do
somebody has to be making youtube
content to change the world or to help
people in one small part of it and i'm
making this video to ask the question
maybe it's you